# Configure a caching DNS server
DNS is a distributed, hierarchical key-value database. 

## [host](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/host-command-in-linux-with-examples/)
This command is used to find the IP address of a particular domain name or if you want to find out the domain name of a particular IP address the host command becomes handy.

## Training
* [Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/cp/courses/lesson/course/5415/lesson/1/module/428)

## Record Types
* A (Address Mapping Records)
* AAAA (IP Version 6 Address Records)
* CNAME (Canonical Name Records)
* MX (Mail Exchanger Records)
* NS (Nameserver Records)
* PTR (Reverse-Lookup Pointer Records)
* SOA (Start of Authority Records)
* TXT (Text Records)

## Forward DNS
Forward DNS queries use A or AAAA record types and are most often used to turn a DNS name into an IP address.

## Forward DNS
Forward DNS queries use A or AAAA record types and are most often used to turn a DNS name into an IP address.

## Reverse DNS
It's used to turn an IP address into a DNS name.
* IPv4: `.in-addr.arpa.`
* IPv6: `.ip6.arpa.`

Example:
```
192.168.1.25 to 25.1.168.192.in-addr.arpa. - IPv4
```

## BIND9
Bind files are stored in the **/etc/bind** folder.
```
sudo apt-get install bind9
sudo systemctl start bind9​​​​​​​
```

### Configuration
Settings for the configuration file are stored in the **/etc/bind/named.conf.options**:
* listen-on
* Close listen-on-v6
* Close allow-query
* Close recursion
* Close forwarders
* Close forward-first

If you do changes on the configuration. You have to restart the service.
```
sudo systemctl restart bind9​​​​​​​
```

### [named-checkconf]()
Use to check the configuration file for proper syntax.

### Zone configuration
BIND zone configuration, each Authoritative zone needs a definition in **/etc/bind/named.conf.local** (The Slaves zones too)

Authoritative zone definition example:
```
zone "example.com." IN {
   type master;
   file "example.com.zone";
}; 
```

Slave zone definition example:
```
zone "foo.example." IN {
   type slave;
   masters { 192.168.1.2; 192.168.2.3; };
};
```

### Zone files
Authoritative zones are defined and must contain an SOA (Start of Authority) record. 
**Note**: Zone files should contain an NS (nameserver) record.
```
cat /etc/bind/db.local

$TTL	604800
@	IN	SOA	localhost. root.localhost. (
			      2		; Serial
			 604800		; Refresh
			  86400		; Retry
			2419200		; Expire
			 604800 )	; Negative Cache TTL
;
@	IN	NS	localhost.
@	IN	A	127.0.0.1
@	IN	AAAA	::1
```
#### $GENERATE
This directive is a shorthand way of entering multiple similar records. For example:
```
$GENERATE 1-254 $.0.168.192.in-addr.arpa. PTR host-$.dsl.example.net.
```
This would create 254 PTR records, all of similar format, looking like this:
```
1.0.168.192.in-addr.arpa. PTR host-1.dsl.example.net.
2.0.168.192.in-addr.arpa. PTR host-2.dsl.example.net.
[...]
254.0.168.192.in-addr.arpa. PTR host-254.dsl.example.net.
```

#### SOA include:
* Admin email
* Primary name server
* Serial number
* Timers
  * Refresh: How often to check for new serial from master.
  * Retry: How often to retry if no response from master.
  * Expire: How long to keep returning authoritative answers when we cannot reach the master server.
  * Negative TTL: How long to cache an NX domain answer. To set the default TTL use the $TTL line at the beginning of the line.

**Note:** Serial Number should increment every time you make a change to your zone file. Best practice format: **YYYYMMDDXX**

#### [named-checkzone]()
We would verify the above zone file by using the following command:
```
named-checkzone localhost. /etc/bind/db.local
```

### DNS View
A DNS view will cause the DNS server to respond to requests different data depending on the match criteria, such as source IP address.

#### Rules
* If we used it, ALL zones must be in a view.
* Usually restrictions are not mandatory
* The named.conf file is processed sequentially. The file should be ordered most restrictive to least restrictive.
* Each zone in a view will have a separate zone file.

Syntax:
```
view "view_name" [class]
  [ match-clients address_match_list ; ]
  [ match-destinations address_match_list ; ]
  [ match-recursive-only yes | no ; ]
  // view statements
  // zone clauses
;
```